are you sick of wasting hours upon hours
of your time trying to set up google ads
conversions if that's you you've come to
the right place because i'm going to
show you how you can set up google ads
conversions for your campaign in under
five minutes yes that's right five
minutes plus if you stayed at the end of
this video i'll give you a link so you
can download my step-by-step process so
that way as we go through this video you
don't need to stress about each step
because after watching this video you
can download my step-by-step process so
you can follow it whenever you need to
if we haven't met before my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 hour
google ads master we all understand the
importance of having correct and
accurate conversion data as well metrics
like your click-through ratio your
keyword quality score or your average
cost per click are really important
metrics that you need to keep track of
ultimately your google ads campaign has
one purpose and one purpose only and
that's to either drive more sales or to
increase the number of inquiries that
you're getting on a daily basis having
accurate and correct conversion data
means that as you optimize your account
you can focus your budget on the
keywords the ad copies the audiences and
the locations that are providing you the
highest level of conversions for the
lowest cost and this is why your
conversions in google ads need to be set
up correctly when it comes to setting up
conversion actions in your google ads
campaigns there are a couple of
different methods and tools that you can
use but the process that i use is to set
up your conversion actions in google
analytics using google tag manager and
then import those conversions from
google analytics into your google ads
campaign and there are three reasons for
why i use this method and the first
reason is is because it's simple and
easy out of all the different methods
that i've tried i found this one to be
the easiest to use especially if you're
a beginner and even if you are advanced
in google ads i still use this method
and the reason for that is because i
find it the most robust and the most
trustworthy source for tracking your
conversion actions a real quick note if
you don't have google analytics or
google tag manager set up on your
website yet in the description below
i've actually put some easy to follow
links that you can use whether you're
using a wordpress site a wix site or a
shopify site so that you can set up
google analytics and google tag manager
on your website and the second reason
for i use this method is that it
guarantees that the data you're seeing
in your google ads campaign actually
matches the data that you see in your
google analytics profile so it removes
the chance of seeing any discrepancies
between google ads and also google
analytics and the third and final reason
and probably the most important reason
for why i use this method it means that
you can look at your assisted
conversions report in google analytics
the assisted conversions report in
google analytics is a report that you
can run and use to see the relationship
between all of your channels when it
comes to individual conversion actions
this allows you to see the relationship
that google ads has with the other
marketing channels whether that be email
social direct or your organic traffic so
by using this method you're getting the
full story of how all of your campaigns
and marketing efforts across multiple
channels are interacting and assisting
each other so that you can best
understand the steps that we're going to
be taking to set up your conversion
tracking in google ads using google
analytics and google tag manager i
firstly just wanted to quickly take you
through the relationship between google
ads google analytics and google tag
manager as you may know in google ads
this is where you create and optimize
your google ads campaign whereas google
analytics is how you track and see what
happens when people actually visit your
website now of course you do get some
data in google ads in regards to how
many people have seen your ads how many
people click on your ads but what google
doesn't give you in the google ads
console is it doesn't let you know what
happens when people get onto your
website and this is where google
analytics comes into account it actually
shows you exactly what happens when
people get onto your website and you can
even filter that down to actually seeing
what happens when people get onto your
website from your different google ads
campaigns and then finally google tag
manager allows you to set up conversion
tags and it actually connects these tags
and triggers with your website your
google ads profile and also your google
analytics account so you can see that
you need these three different profiles
all working in one so you can get the
proper conversion data for your google
ads campaigns now that you know the
relationship between google analytics
google tag manager and google ads we can
start to get into this training of how
you can set up your very own google ads
conversion actions but before we do that
so that i can continue to release these
step-by-step training videos to help you
increase the performance of your google
ads campaigns could you do me a huge
favor and not only like this video but
also subscribe to my channel thank you
so much let's get into the training as
we're going through this process of
setting up your conversion actions using
google analytics and google tag manager
my recommendation is for you to do this
using google chrome and the reason for
this is that this is the best browser
that allows you to actually test your
conversion actions when we get to that
step and in this process i recommend
that you have four tabs ready to go the
first one with your google analytics
profile the second one with your google
tag manager profile the third one with
your google ads account and then finally
have your website on the fourth tab and
have it on the page where you're
actually going to be testing the
conversion action and for this example
we're going to be setting up a
conversion action to trigger every time
someone clicks on this email button
right here which sends me an email and
the reason for why i'm showing you this
example is that it can actually be
easily replicated whether you wanted to
track if someone wanted to click on your
phone number if you had one on your
website or if you wanted to track for
every time someone actually fills out
your form like we've got here so the
first step of the process is that we
actually need to link your google
analytics and your google ads accounts
together and the way that we do this we
go into google analytics go into admin
and then when you're an admin under this
property section click on google ad
links and then once you've clicked on
the google ad links you'll see this
option to create a new link group now as
you can see i've already got this
account set up with our defined digital
academy but i'm going to set up a new
link group and i'm going to set this up
with a new profile which is this to
define digital training we select that
account and then once we select that
scroll down to the bottom and click
continue and then from there we want to
click on this button here because we
want all of our website data to go into
google analytics and the reason for why
we want to select that is that that
gives us more reporting data in google
analytics from google ads and then from
there we click on link accounts and then
once we've clicked on linked accounts
you need to go into the google ads
campaign that you've just sent the
request through
refresh the screen go into tools and
settings linked accounts and from here
we can actually see that this profile is
already set up and if you wanted to
check it just click on manage and link
and then you can scroll down and we can
see here that our defined digital
account is linked in and we're seeing
all that data flowing to google
analytics so now that you've got your
google analytics and your google ads
accounts linked we can actually go into
the process of setting up conversion
actions for your google ads campaign in
under five minutes let's go so to start
this process we go into google analytics
then go into admin and then from there
select goals and then we want to click a
new goal and then with our goal set up
we want to go to custom continue and
then we want to name our goal and the
purpose here is to give your goal a name
there which is easy to understand and
because we're wanting to track every
time someone clicks on this email
through here we're just going to call
this email click and then from there we
want to go and press event and press
continue now from here we need to add in
our category and action and this is why
we need the google tag manager set up in
another tab because these naming
conventions in the category in action
need to be exactly the same as what they
are in google tag manager so in google
tag manager we go and replicate the
process we've done so far so we click on
new tag we want to call this conversion
action the same as google analytics so
that's email click and then with our tag
configuration we want this to be a
google analytics universal analytics
conversion action and once again we're
selecting this as an event and this is
where we need to make sure the category
and action are exactly the same in
google tag manager as what they are in
google analytics so for the category
we're going to say conversion and for
the action we're going to say email
click and then we just copy this over go
into google tag manager the category
once again is conversion and the action
is email click so we're making sure that
these two are exactly the same and then
from here in google tag manager we need
to select this google analytics settings
now in google tag manager i've already
set up my google analytics profile but
if you haven't done this yet so far all
you need to do is copy over your google
analytics tracking code to add this in
here so we've already done the first
part where we've got our tag configured
in google tag manager and this is set up
in google analytics so in google
analytics we then press save because the
rest of the actions that we need to
complete are now in google tag manager
now what we need to do in google tag
manager is set up the triggering and
this is the process where we're telling
google analytics is that we want this to
be classed as a conversion action when
this action has taken place and for us
we want this conversion action email
click to fire every time someone clicks
on this email address right here so to
do this we click on triggering and then
we want to click this little blue plus
sign to add a new trigger and to make it
easier i like to write email click
so that our trigger is exactly the same
as the conversion action we then press
edit and from here we want to click on
just links and then the next step is we
want to click on some links and the
reason for that is is that we want to
refine and define which are the actual
link clicks that we want to be classed
as conversion actions now for this part
of the process you do need to go over to
your website and when you're on the
element that you want to be tracked so
for us it's this email address you
actually want to click your right click
and you want to go to inspect and what
you're looking for here is something
that is unique which signifies to google
tag manager that that is the specific
click that we want track now thankfully
on this page we only have one email link
so we can just use the definer mail to
but if we had multiple email addresses
in the trigger we could actually just
put in the actual email address so that
that way google knows that we only want
that specific email track but for this
example we're just going to use mail
mail2 so we go back to tag manager and
from here we want to say click element
contains
and then we write in mail 2 then we
click save and then from here it brings
us back to that previous screen where we
press save again and then the next step
of the process is that we actually want
to go through and preview our conversion
action and this is where that we make
sure that our conversion action is
firing as we've set up so we click
preview and because we're using google
chrome this will allow us to complete
this testing phase in our web browser so
we just go over to the website that
we're wanting to use
press copy go into our tag manager
assistant and then we can press paste
and then we want to connect this through
and then this brings up our website and
we see this little bar down here which
says tag assistant connected which lets
us know that we are right to start our
testing we then complete the action that
we want to complete and then we go back
to our testing screen press continue and
we can actually see that our email click
has actually fired on the first time now
if you get to the situation where you've
completed your conversion action but
your tag hasn't fired what you need to
do is you need to go back into that link
click so you click that there you go
into the variables and you want to have
a look for a unique trigger that you can
use so for this website when we're in
google tag manager and we're in our
triggering we can see that the click
element contains mailto and then from
here we can actually see here that the
click element contains mailto and that's
what worked on my website if your
website is a little bit different it may
have a different triggering mechanism
and all you need to do is you need to go
in through here you can go to edit
choose a built-in variable and then you
can have a look because in some cases it
may be the click text or it may be the
click target or it may even be the click
id and you're just going through and
using those different options
with this section here so you're
choosing a different one here and then
you can just go through and test the
different built-in variables until you
get one where you go into your testing
and you actually see that this tag is
fired so as it stands right now we have
actually completed our conversion
tracking so the final thing that we need
to do is we need to actually go through
and submit these changes press publish
you can write a description if you want
but i'm just going to continue this and
then our conversion tracking is
finalized and set up now if you did want
to do one more last real test you can go
into google analytics go into your real
time and then conversions and you can
see through here that our email click
conversion has actually triggered
through our testing so now we know we've
got a double confirmation in both google
tag manager and google analytics that
our conversion tracking is set up and
completed to go and so that you can see
that the process is the same i just did
want to show you another conversion that
we've got set up in here already which
is our form submission so you can see in
here we follow the same process in that
we're tracking an event and then we've
got conversion and form submission and
then in google tag manager you can see
through here is our form submission once
again we're showing the same category
and the actions of conversion action and
form submission so you can see that
these two match but in this case for the
triggering we're actually using the
built-in variable of form submission
which you can actually find in here in
google tag manager if we wanted to edit
you can actually see in here you've got
form submission so as you can see right
now following the same process we've
quickly set up two conversion actions so
that we can see and track whether
someone actually clicks on this email or
whether they complete that form now that
you've set up your conversion action in
google analytics and you've actually
tested it and it is firing in google tag
manager and we've also cross checked to
make sure that it is also firing in
google analytics the final step and this
is a really really easy step is that we
need to just import our conversion
action from google analytics and place
it into google ads and to complete this
process you need to go into google ads
click on tools and settings and then
under measurement click on conversions
and then from there we just want to
click on the big blue button which says
new conversion action and then from
those four options that you see we want
to click on import and then go down and
select google analytics and press
continue and then this will then show
you the new conversion actions which you
can add into google ads select the
conversion actions you want to import
and then press import and continue and
then that process is complete now in the
event that you don't see your conversion
action there ready to import into google
ads you don't need to fear because it
can take up to 24 hours for your
conversion action to appear so in that
case just relax come back the next day
and follow that same process in google
ads where you click on tools and
settings go to conversions and add a new
conversion action thanks for sticking
around and remember as my gift you just
need to go and follow the link in the
description below so that you can get
that pdf download so you can follow
those step-by-step process for how you
can complete your google ads tracking
using google analytics and google tag
manager it's been my absolute pleasure
to take you through the simple
step-by-step process of how you can
complete google ads tracking using
google analytics and google tag manager
and now that you've got an easy process
where you can set up your very own
conversion actions in google ads what i
want you to go through now is i want you
to focus on improving your google ads
campaign through targeting better
keywords and you can do that right here
by following this video and then the
next step is you need to have compelling
ad copy so that people don't only see
your ads they click on your ads and if
you want to learn how to write ads that
people are going to click on and not
only see you need to go through and
watch this training right here as always
thank you very much and i look forward
to seeing you on our next training bye